# DNS Updater

If you are tired of your current dynamic DNS service provider and are a DigitalOcean
client you can use this tool to replace your current service with this (very) simple solution.

It relies on DigitalOcean's API v2 to update a given A record of your domain.

Pull Requests supporting additional DNS services are welcome.

## Quick Start (Server)

### 1. Install the dependencies

    composer install

### 2. Get your secrets

By now you should have a Personal Access Token from DigitalOcean. If you don't,
[check this instructions](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-the-digitalocean-api-v2)
and create a new Personal Access Token with the `write` permission.

You'll also need an OTP secret that can be obtained with the following command:

    bin/console otp:generate-secret

### 2. Configure your Environment

You'll need to set the environment variables listed in the `.env.dist` file.
You can do so by copying it removing the `.dist` suffix and editing it's contents.

    cp .env.dist .env

### 3. Setup your OTP Generator (Google Authenticator or similar)

After configuring your `.env` variables you'll be able to generate a link to the QR Code
used for setting up your OTP Generator app. Just type:

    bin/console otp:get-qr-code

### 4. Taking it for a spin

You can now run it locally to test it:

    bin/console server:run

### 5. Available endpoints

This tool will expose 2 endpoints: `/ip` and `/update`.

#### /ip

This endpoint will return your external IP and the server's date and time. You can,
optionally, pass a query parameter `otp` containing the code generated by your OTP app.

Example:

    https://your.server/ip?otp=123456

Response:

``` json
{
  ip: "127.0.0.1",
  timestamp: "2018-02-13 02:14:46",
  auth: true
}
```

#### /update

This endpoint will update the configured subdomain if the `otp` parameter is a valid OTP.
The response will be the 

Example:

    https://your.server/update?otp=123456

Response:

``` json
{
  domain_record: {
    id: 19372846,
    type: "A",
    name: "subdomain",
    data: "255.255.255.255",
    priority: null,
    port: null,
    ttl: 60,
    weight: null,
    flags: null,
    tag: null
  }
}
```
